---
title: "Routing on Sparse Graphs with Non-metric Costs for the Prize-collecting Travelling Salesperson Problem"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-10-att
venue: "13th International Workshop on Agents in Traffic and Transportation"
date: 2024-10-19
location: "Santiago de Compostela, Spain"
---

**Abstract**: In many real-world routing problems, decision makers must optimise over sparse graphs such as transportation
networks with non-metric costs on the edges that do not obey the triangle inequality. Motivated by finding a
sufficiently long running route in a city that minimises the air pollution exposure of the runner, we study the
Prize-collecting Travelling Salesperson Problem (Pc-TSP) on sparse graphs with non-metric costs. Given an
undirected graph with a cost function on the edges and a prize function on the vertices, the goal of Pc-TSP is to
find a tour rooted at the origin that minimises the total cost such that the total prize is at least some quota. First,
we introduce heuristics designed for sparse graphs with non-metric cost functions where previous work dealt
with either a complete graph or a metric cost function. Next, we develop a branch & cut algorithm that employs a
new cut we call the disjoint-paths cost-cover (DPCC) cut. Empirical experiments on two datasets show that our
heuristics can produce a feasible solution with less cost than a state-of-the-art heuristic from the literature. On
datasets with non-metric cost functions, DPCC is found to solve more instances to optimality than the baseline
cutting algorithm we compare against.

[See more information here.](https://sites.google.com/unimib.it/att2024/home)